Opening Monologue:

1st:
It wasn't always like this. I wasn't born in a cage. Somewhere out there is the freedom I remember - and I'm going to find it. These humans can't keep me here, not against my will. My friends are out there somewhere too - I've seen them. Such a sad sight, the mighty Salamanders kept in cages by mere humans! But we can escape, oh yes. The only problem is these latches... damn those humans and their thumbs! I will have to rely on my own two jaws ([SPACEBAR]) to manipulate their world. So be it. It has come to this - and the Salamanders must prevail!

2nd:
You awaken in a glass tank - trapped! The humans have confined you in their devious contraption! Somewhere out there, you know your friends are similarly imprisoned. You look at the latch on the tank, then at your small salamander fingers - damn your lack of thumbs! You will have to manipulate this world through your own two jaws alone ([SPACEBAR]). The time has come for your great escape! The Salamanders must prevail!

3rd:
Salamander7 awakens in a glass tank. He's trapped! Scientists have imprisoned him and his friends throughout their laboratory with no doubt devious motives. He looks at the latch on the cage, then at his small salamander fingers, cursing his lack of thumbs. His only tool to manipulate this world is his own two jaws ([SPACEBAR]). He is ready for action - the time has come to escape!



Salamander Profiles:

Salamander7 
	Our hero. Salamander 7 is a righteous North African Fire Salamander. He is ready to take on the world.

Dexter
	A nerdy Mottled Salamander. Dexter is an expert in coding and decoding. He has a pair of grey rings around his eyes that resemble glasses. Dexter has a tendency to be nervous, often to the point of paranoia, but when he focuses on something, he really focuses.
Special: hints on certain puzzles

Lacey
	A clever lady Alpine Salamander. She is the master of disguise and intrigue - her black coloring makes it possible for her to hide in the shadows, striking when least expected. Lacey doesn't interact with the other salamanders much - she is very quiet and withdrawn, in a way that's almost frightening. She is the ninja of salamanders.
Special: super camouflage

Gus
	A California Tiger Salamander, Gus has one heck of an appetite. He's quite large for his species, and slow, but he is prodigiously strong and can provide a steady weight to anchor things. Gus is cheerful, and generally willing to go along with whatever people suggest. He's not exactly fearless, recognizing risks for the dangers they are, but he's no coward either. He is extremely loyal.
Special: heavy/strong

Blicka
	Blicka is a tiny Olympic Torrent Salamander. Though small, she is a prodigious swimmer - able to swim faster than anyone else, and to squeeze herself into tight spaces, both underwater and above. She is very high-energy and moves quite fast, even on land. She is cheerful and generally up for a challenge, but frightened of things that are too much larger than she is.
Special: expert swimmer